Distributed tracing 2.9 (#62410)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/distr-tracing-tempo-install-instance.adoc

Choose Tempo Operator from the list of available Operators, and click Install.

Under Installation Mode, select All namespaces on the cluster.

Under Installed Namespace, select openshift-operators-redhat.

You must specify the openshift-operators-redhat namespace. The openshift-operators namespace might contain Community Operators, which are untrusted and might publish a metric with the same name as an OpenShift Container Platform metric, which would cause conflicts.

Select an Approval Strategy.

The Automatic strategy allows Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM) to automatically update the Operator when a new version is available.

The Manual strategy requires a user with appropriate credentials to approve the Operator update.

Click Install.

Verify that you installed the Tempo Operator. Visit the Operators → Installed Operators page and look for Tempo Operator.

Ensure that Tempo Operator is listed with Status as Succeeded in all the projects.

Create a Secret YAML file that uses the access_key_id and access_key_secret fields to specify your AWS credentials and bucketnames, endpoint and region to define the object storage location. For example:

> 

Author: ```suggestion

[source,yaml]
```

> ----

Author: ```suggestion
[source,yaml]
----
```

apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: minio-test
stringData:
  endpoint: http://minio.minio.svc:9000
  bucket: tempo
  access_key_id: tempo
  access_key_secret: supersecret
type: Opaque
----

> Create the TempOStack custom resource, this is a basic example:

Author: ```suggestion
. Create the TempOStack custom resource. For example:
```

> ----

Author: ```suggestion
[source,yaml]
----
```

apiVersion: tempo.grafana.com/v1alpha1
kind: TempoStack
metadata:
  name: simplest
spec:
  storage:
    secret:
      name: minio-test
      type: s3
  storageSize: 1Gi
  resources:
    total:
      limits:
        memory: 2Gi
        cpu: 2000m
  template:
    queryFrontend:
      jaegerQuery:
        enabled: true
----

Apply the configuration:

> ----

Author: ```suggestion
[source,terminal]
----
```

oc apply -f tempo.yaml
----

> After create the TempoStack CR you should see a some pods on the namespace, wait until the stack to stabilized.

Author: ```suggestion
. Verify that are pods on the namespace when the `TempoStack` CR is created.

.  Wait for the stack to stabilize.
```

Reviewer: After this step. We can add another step to get the Tempo query frontend route.

`To get the Tempo query frontend URL, run the below command.`
`oc get route`

> The stack deployed above is configured to receive jaeger Thrift HTTP and OTLP, also because the jaeger query is enable you can use the jaeger UI to inspect the data.

Author: I need to make a suggestion for this sentence.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
//* distr_tracing_tempo/distr-tracing-tempo-installing.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="distr-tracing-tempo-install-instance_{context}"]
= Installing a {TempoName} instance

https://issues.redhat.com/browse/TRACING-3296

Deploying the TempoStack

You can use the OpenShift Container Platform web console to deploy the TempoStack.

.Prerequisites

> * Supported Object Store (AWS S3, Google Cloud Storage, Azure, Swift, Minio, OpenShift Data Foundation)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Supported Object Store (AWS S3, Google Cloud Storage, Azure, Minio, OpenShift Data Foundation)
```

Swift is not supported.

.Procedure

. Install the Tempo Operator:

.. In the OpenShift Container Platform web console, click *Operators* → *OperatorHub*.

.. Choose *Tempo Operator* from the list of available Operators, and click *Install*.

.. Under *Installation Mode*, select *All namespaces* on the cluster.

> .. Under *Installed Namespace*, select *openshift-operators-redhat*.

Author: @rubenvp8510, in the OpenShift web console, the default preset for the Tempo Operator is *openshift-operators* rather than *openshift-operators-redhat*. Is it OK?

+

> IMPORTANT: You must specify the `openshift-operators-redhat` namespace. The `openshift-operators` namespace might contain Community Operators, which are untrusted and might publish a metric with the same name as an OpenShift Container Platform metric, which would cause conflicts.

Reviewer 2: @andreasgerstmayr should the namespace be `openshift-tempo-operator`?

Reviewer: Yeah, according to our discussion. The namespace should be `openshift-tempo-operator` Also in the installed namespace, there will be two options to select from.

*Operator recommended Namespace: openshift-tempo-operator
Select a namespace.

So this `Under *Installed Namespace*, select *openshift-operators-redhat*.` will be `Under *Installed Namespace*, select *Operator recommended Namespace: openshift-tempo-operator*.`

Reviewer: The Tempo operator version has support for monitoring as well so we will have the option to enable monitoring on the namespace. 

`Enable Operator recommended cluster monitoring on this Namespace`

This adds `openshift.io/cluster-monitoring: "true"` label to the namespace and allows OpenShift Monitoring platform to monitor the operator.

Reviewer: We also need to add this note under the enable monitoring option.

Namespace monitoring
Please note that installing non-Red Hat operators into OpenShift namespaces and enabling monitoring voids user support. Enabling cluster monitoring for non-Red Hat operators can lead to malicious metrics data overriding existing cluster metrics. For more information, see the [cluster monitoring documentation](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/openshift_container_platform/4.14/html/monitoring/configuring-the-monitoring-stack#maintenance-and-support_configuring-the-monitoring-stack).

Since we do not have the product build yet, you can check an existing operator like Elasticsearch operator which has option to enable monitoring.

Author: I've noted some of the comments for discussion as part of the next PR.
Resolving this thread.

. Select an Approval Strategy:
** The Automatic strategy allows Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM) to automatically update the Operator when a new version is available.
** The Manual strategy requires a user with appropriate credentials to approve the Operator update.

. Click *Install*.

. Verify that you installed the Tempo Operator:
..  Go to *Operators* → *Installed Operators* page and look for *Tempo Operator*.
.. Ensure that *Tempo Operator* is listed with *Status* as *Succeeded* in all the projects.

> . Create a Secret YAML file that uses the `access_key_id` and `access_key_secret` fields to specify your AWS credentials and bucketnames, endpoint and region to define the object storage location. For example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Create a Secret YAML file to specify the secret for your object storage bucket. For instance, if you are using AWS S3, create a file that uses the `access_key_id` and `access_key_secret` fields to specify your AWS credentials and bucketnames, endpoint and region to define the object storage location. For example:
```

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: minio-test
stringData:
  endpoint: http://minio.minio.svc:9000
  bucket: tempo
  access_key_id: tempo
  access_key_secret: supersecret
type: Opaque

> ----

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure if we should do it for AWS S3 or ODF.

Reviewer: Its fine if we use S3, many of the operators use S3 as an example. However the name should be different for the secret and we can use the following example to create the secret. 

```
oc create secret generic tempostack-dev-s3 \
  --from-literal=bucket="<BUCKET_NAME>" \
  --from-literal=endpoint="<AWS_BUCKET_ENDPOINT>" \
  --from-literal=access_key_id="<AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID>" \
  --from-literal=access_key_secret="<AWS_ACCESS_KEY_SECRET>"
```

Author: Outdated.Resolving this thread.

. Create the TempOStack custom resource. For example:

[source,yaml]
----

> apiVersion: tempo.grafana.com/v1alpha1

Reviewer: This CR doesn't enable the route. We need to set the ingress type and termination. 

```
---
apiVersion: tempo.grafana.com/v1alpha1
kind: TempoStack
metadata:
  name: simplest
spec:
  storage:
    secret:
      name: minio-test
      type: s3
  storageSize: 1Gi
  resources:
    total:
      limits:
        memory: 2Gi
        cpu: 2000m
  template:
    queryFrontend:
      jaegerQuery:
        enabled: true
        ingress:
          route:
            termination: edge
          type: route
```
